# Weeknotes 1.6


- I’ll be honest: it’s difficult to care about piecing together weeknotes in this [waves hands vaguely at world] situation. Victoria’s coronavirus response has moved to Stage 3 - a conditional lockdown - and although it seems like Australia as a whole is doing ok, relatively speaking, in slowing the spread of the virus, it’s a strange, unsettling time. People are out of work, money is drying up, and the number of dead and ill rises every day. The psychological toll on its own is going to be enormous. It doesn’t feel particularly necessary to sit down and write about what I’ve been reading or listening to - and it’s not like I’ve been anywhere of note.
- But *anyway*, here I am. I did manage to read *The Dog of the South* and *Masters of Atlantis*, which leaves me with only one Charles Portis novel to go. Thankfully, he was such a marvellous writer that although his output was slim, his books are highly re-readable.
- Got my flu shot. The advisory email said “It’s important not to contract influenza and Covid-19 at the same time.” Well, I’m doing my best.
- On one of my daily Isolation Hikes I found $20. No need to look around for its owner as the street was deserted. To paraphrase King Missile, I took it home, washed it off, and put it in my wallet.
- **Record of the week**: I have recently been getting into the Byrds, and the album that got its hooks into me is 1967’s *Younger Than Yesterday*. It’s a diverse but always coherent album, dipping into country rock and psychedelia, as well as jazz - there’s even a trumpet solo by Hugh Masekela. ([Discogs](https://www.discogs.com/The-Byrds-Younger-Than-Yesterday/master/30054) • [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/33puYJ2y5qANDenRmL8BS1?si=7v3GLLzYQguFJXp7Q7CXvw))
