# Weeknotes 1.1

At this time of year I am more than usually alert to the angle of sunlight, the direction of the wind; when I’m not eyeing deciduous trees for tell-tale signs of shedding I’m monitoring the weather forecast for declining overnight minimums.  Is the weather changing? Is autumn in the air? Do the long nights approach, when we shun the chill outdoors and huddle before the hearth, sharing ghost stories while Great Aunt Ivy ladles steaming hot herrings directly into our upturned mouths? Of course not - it’s the end of February in 21st century Melbourne, where autumn begins in late April and consists of two glorious frosty-blue-sky days before the anti-cyclonic gloom of winter settles over the city like a dirty pillow case over a kidnap victim’s head.

§

Hi, welcome to my blog. I have been wanting to get back into blogging for a while now, and the idea of doing [weeknotes](https://medium.com/job-garden/a-pre-history-of-weeknotes-plus-why-i-write-them-and-perhaps-why-you-should-too-week-16-31a4a5cbf7b0) - short weekly dispatches, ostensibly about the week itself, but potentially about anything at all - appeals as a low pressure reintroduction to the world of blathering online. I hope to post at other times, too, but for now the goal is to get some notes up every Friday/Saturday and see how that works out.

§

This week I read Elizabeth Gaskell’s *Cranford*, about a group of older women who constitute the “quality” strata of a quaint English village. I’m drawn to novels featuring older protagonists, particularly women. Perhaps I hold unconscious hopes of old age somehow transforming me into an irascible yet practical and good-hearted woman, when of course what I’ll actually become is a befuddled gent with enormous ears and an obsession with “keeping an eye on” local construction sites. *Cranford* is a supremely gentle novel, lightly satirical about gradations of class, and very much concerned with character over plot. Its humour is more whimsical than uproarious, although the chapter about the town contending with a (completely imaginary) gang of robbers is rich with subtle comedy. In a week when I didn’t particularly feel like reading anything, *Cranford* was a perfect tonic.

§

At one of the library branches I visit, an upright piano has been provided for patrons to play. To prevent every passing bozo from banging out that one song you play on the black keys with your knuckles, you have to be Level 5 or above to use it; there are also strict rules about when you can play. I mean strict - last week some guy sat down at the wrong time and began playing, quite beautifully, and another patron *dobbed him in* and a librarian went and told him to stop. Imagine trying to add some beauty to this oft-times ugly world only to be swarmed by the piano cops! 

§

Record of the Week is the [self-titled 1996 album](https://www.discogs.com/Baader-Meinhof-Baader-Meinhof/master/17235) by Luke Haines’s Baader Meinhof project. A concept album about the West German terrorist group and associated folk (Carlos the Jackal, the PLO) has the potential to go wrong in a thousand ways, but Haines pulls it off. It’s a tight ten songs (eleven on vinyl), playing up an appropriately sleazy-glam 70s aesthetic, and eschewing narrative in favour of allusive and cryptic lyrical snapshots.
