# Weeknotes 1.5

- Greetings from the quiet northern suburbs of Melbourne. Most things are shut, most people are shut in. The schools have gone into “extended holidays”; it remains to be seen whether they open at the end of the normal holiday period. My guess is that they won’t. Later today I’ll allow myself to go for a walk along the deserted streets for some fresh air and to say hi to all of the cats blissfully asleep in the autumn sunshine, without a care in the world.
- We are extraordinarily lucky, financially speaking, at least for now. (The “for now” thing likes to wake me in a panic at 4am.) Our apartment, while quite small, is comfortable and large enough for the three of us to each have a bit of space. None of us have compromising health issues, that we are aware of anyway. It’s still a stressful, terrifying time, but I like to remind myself that it could be a lot worse. I don’t take any of it for granted.
- Enjoyed Barbara Pym’s funny and sympathetic *Quartet in Autumn* - my first Pym, and not my last. I was less enamoured with Jonathan Ames’s Wodehouse homage *Wake Up, Sir!*, although it was perfectly agreeable: a novel of enjoyable parts that never quite cohere. More than anything it made me want to get back into reading Wodehouse.
- **Record of the week**: A cursory glance at Rate Your Music and Discogs indicates that *Just a Souvenir* (2008) isn’t widely beloved among Squarepusher fans, but it’s one of my favourites. It’s among Tom Jenkinson’s most fusion-influenced offerings, which might explain the ambivalence. It’s great fun, though, with some brilliant bass playing and an entertaining mix of styles. ([Bleep](https://bleep.com/release/6153-squarepusher-just-a-souvenir) • [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/5QFUEbiB4JpWgYP18GF5lk?si=q5yONr3JQk2vdfMM-flUhA) • [Discogs](https://www.discogs.com/Squarepusher-Just-A-Souvenir/master/15216))
