# Weeknotes 1.4

- Start a blog, I thought. Write up brief notes about what you’ve been doing. Frivolous stuff about music you’ve been listening to, or walks you’ve been taking. Sure, there’s a worrying new virus spreading, but it’s not like it will eventually threaten to completely derail society and colonise our collective consciousness to the point that it’s the only thing anybody can think or talk about. Right?
- Trying out a bullet point format this week. You’ve gotta live while you can.
- I’ve been reading Coetzee’s South African novels over the past few months, culminating this week with *Disgrace*. (One of two I had read before, the other being *Foe*.) Even by Coetzee’s standards *Disgrace* is an oppressive, brutal book. It’s a complex novel that could be said to be “about” a lot of things, but one thing that struck me is how thorough an evisceration of heterosexual masculinity it is - heterosexual masculinity as it manifests in life, but also in literature. The opening thirty or forty pages could be read as a riposte to the Nabokovian/Rothian/Bellovian cliche of the intellectual older man carrying on an affair with a much younger woman. I say “riposte” but it’s more like a literary flamethrower. The tropes, and the mental justifications behind those tropes, have been scorched beyond recognition even before you reach the scene where our “hero”, David Lurie, pathetically convinces himself that he has skirted atrocity - “Not rape, not quite that, but undesired nonetheless”. I was quite young when I first read *Disgrace*, too young to understand what was being asked of me. This is a novel that asks a lot of its protagonist, of its readers, and I think, implicitly, of its author.
- On a lighter note, I finished listening to Tom Cox’s utterly charming *21st Century Yokel*, and I read Muriel Spark’s truly odd *Not to Disturb*. I feel that non-brutal books like these might be the best option for the next little while. (Although the Spark *is* quite brutal, albeit in a blackly comic way.)
- I’ve got lots of games on my PS4 that I haven’t gotten around to playing for the extremely first-world-problems reason that I get bored sitting through establishing cut-scenes and learning new control schemes. Yesterday I decided to stop being so bloody silly and I started playing *Assassin’s Creed Odyssey*. It’s fun, and suitably epic - perfect for our socially isolated moment.
- **Record of the week:** I’m a little calmer now, but earlier in the week I was feeling the apocalyptic burn. Anxiety through the roof, shaking hands (I mean my hands were shaking - I’m not shaking anyone else’s damn hand), a sense of helpless fury. One thing that helped was listening to legendary local indie pop group The Lucksmiths. It was like hearing music from another world: a gentle, witty place where a broken heart was the worst thing that could happen, and even that could be dealt with in a mellow, wry fashion. *Cartography For Beginners* (2013) their 35-track best-of comp, will set you up for a couple of hours. ([Bandcamp](https://thelucksmiths.bandcamp.com/album/cartography-for-beginners) • [Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/album/6vA2Gw5QHmfidUKZFshZ4J?si=ahLX55kMSZa3pBlpjrOggA) • [Discogs](https://www.discogs.com/The-Lucksmiths-Cartography-For-Beginners-A-Best-Of-The-Lucksmiths/master/1431272))
